we receive a lot of questions about our
sound-alikes or our sample replay
projects so I wanted to open one up and
show to you what this is when we
recreate a song that already exists
maybe a popular radio song and we record
every part of the song over again all of
the vocals the guitars the drums
anything that was in it we try to
reproduce to sound as close to the
original as possible so in this project
I have imagine dragons radioactive
and this track is broken up into
that's how we tackle it we do the drums
the background instrumentation
and the remainder his song is focus and
Watson
now these tracks are not copies of one
another they are multiple takes of the
same thing so we double triple quadruple
track some of the lead lines the
harmonies are separate as well and then
the gang vocals which is simulating a
crowd and this has some pretty wild
performances in it because when you
record a crowd or a gang not everybody
is doing exactly the same thing so we
have to emulate that as well it's pretty
wild but it helps create the it helps
reproduce the sound of this track
so there's two things I like to do just
just for fun to show the series one turn
off all of the effects and just play the
recordings which is kind of wild it's
drastically different and it really
shows the importance of production and
then the second thing would be just to
isolate a couple more of these parts and
listen to them on their own as it's
pretty interesting to hear the raw
recording versus the produced recording
so first we'll turn off all of our fix
I'll also have to lower the volume
otherwise this will be clipping like
crazy
so it sounds absolutely nothing like the
finished product
and the reason why is because every
single one of these tracks has effects
to some degree if they're guitar parts
they may have a stomp box or some type
of amp simulator that without it
we still have our guitar tone but it's
not quite the same if it's vocals it
won't be shaped the same way so it'll
still be and then we compress it and it
starts to make a big difference after a
while maybe you hear the difference
maybe you don't but either way I think
everybody hears the difference between
solo
it's just a reverberations this is where
we emulate the environment this larger
mood that we're trying to give the
appearance of
so we create reverberation tracks for
all the different instruments some are
for background some are for particular
vocal sections and others are for other
vocals every little piece in this plays
a role in the overall sound so that's
pretty much what
a couple hundred of them and we'll be
making a couple hundred more so thanks
for stopping by and checking out what we
do